# City-Hospital-Data-Analysis (Interactive Dashboard using Power BI
## Project Objective
City Hospital lacked a centralized view of their financial performance. This made it difficult to identify trends, optimize resource allocation, and make data-driven decisions. The hospital wants to make more strategic data-driven decisions based on their finance and operations data.

## Dataset used
- <a href="https://github.com/Osato240/POWER-BI-DASHBOARD/blob/main/Hospital%20Transactions%20Data.xlsx">Dataset</a>

## Questions (KPIs)
 Calculate the total revenue, expenses and profit cumulated by the hospital over time.
 What is the profit margin generated by the hospital?
 How many Doctors and Patients does the hospital have on record?

 ## Tailored Analysis
- What is the trend of revenue generation over the given time period?
- Which Specialties yielded the highest and the lowest revenue ? 
- How much revenue those each procedure category make in this hospital?
- Looking at each procedure in the hospital, what is the total revenue, expenses and profit margin and in how many transactions was this achieved?
- Who are the top revenue generating doctor in the hospital?
- Who are the top 5 patients that impacted on Revenue generation?
- How many doctors are in each specialty and how many patients patronize each of these specialties?
- What is the trend of patients visits to the hospital over time?
- By gender description give a the total no. of Doctors and patients in the hospital.

- Dashboard Interaction <a href="https://github.com/Osato240/POWER-BI-DASHBOARD/blob/main/HOSPITAL%20DATA%20VISUALISATION.pbix">View Dashboard</a>

## Process
- Removing duplicates, verifying data for anomalies and inconsistencies 
- Creating a logical structure for the data and definnig relationships between different data points, allowing for efficient querying and analysis
- Performing DAX calculations and building the dashboard
- Identifying key insights from the data, thereby driving recommendations to the board

## Dashboard
  

 
